XFCE4-CPUFREQ-PLUGIN
==========================================================================
You can always find up-to-date information at the plugin homepage:
https://docs.xfce.org/panel-plugins/xfce4-cpufreq-plugin

CONTENTS
==========================================================================
* ABOUT
* USAGE
* REPORTING BUGS
* REQUIREMENTS AND DEPENDENCIES
* EASY BUILD INSTRUCTIONS
* TRANSLATING THE PLUGIN FOR YOUR LANGUAGE


ABOUT
==========================================================================
Originally written by Thomas Schreck, this panel plugin shows
information about the CPU governor and frequencies supported and used
by your system. At the time of this writing, changing any of these
settings is not supported by this plugin.


USAGE
==========================================================================
From the configuration dialog, which is available by right-clicking on
the panel widget, select the CPU which you want to monitor in the
panel. Instead of showing values for a single CPU, you can
alternatively choose minimum, average or maximum, which might make
more sense on a multi-core system. If your system is using the Intel
pstate driver, the current maximum will be chosen by default, as this
is what other monitoring applications like i7z show as the current
real performance.

The remaining options on the configuration dialog let you customize
the panel widget layout and what data is shown on the panel.

The overview window can be accessed by left-clicking on the panel
plugin widget, or from the context menu, similar to the configuration
dialog. It shows detailed information for every CPU (core).


REPORTING BUGS
==========================================================================
Before reporting bugs or asking for new features, please update to the
latest version, consolidate the Xfce bug tracker at
https://bugzilla.xfce.org and check the TODO file, because your issue
or request might have been reported already or be in planning. However,
feel free to add any information not yet mentioned that you find useful.


BUILD REQUIREMENTS AND DEPENDENCIES
==========================================================================
The build requirements for this plugin match those of XFCE. Note that
with versions newer than 1.0.0, >=xfce4-panel-4.9 is necessary, and
the plugin will no longer compile nor work with older versions of the
panel. All code supporting older panel versions has been removed.


EASY BUILD INSTRUCTIONS
==========================================================================
If you're interesting in building the plugin yourself, these
instructions provided here will work for most users. If not, please
look at the INSTALL file or ask at a forum for your linux distribution
or try the methods explained on https://www.xfce.org/community. Make
sure you have installed the needed dependencies (see previous section
BUILD REQUIREMENTS AND DEPENDENCIES).

For the panel being able to find the plugin, it is important to set
the proper prefix. The prefix is the place in the filesystem where the
plugin files gets installed. It has to match the prefix used for
building the panel. There's nothing the plugin can do about that
requirement. When you're using the panel provided by the package
management system of your distribution, then the prefix is in most
cases /usr, otherwise the default prefix is /usr/local.

If you want to install the current version from git, execute the
following command in the plugin project directory (make sure you have
GNU automake installed!):

1a) ./autogen.sh --prefix=/usr

Otherwise, if you've downloaded the tarball from e.g.
https://archive.xfce.org/, issue the following command:

1b) ./configure --prefix=/usr

If 1a) or 1b) fail, you should receive an error message telling you
the cause for the failure (e.g. missings libraries). If you're missing
a dependency you need to install it using the package management
system of your distribution. Distributions commonly have two versions
of a software package: One containing the supplementary files needed
for compiling other packages, and the other one providing the runtime
libraries etc. While the latter is usually installed, the former often
is not, so better check this.

Note: To solve distribution-specific problems the most efficient way
is to ask at a forum for your distribution, not on a general forum.

Then for both cases:
2) make

If this fails, file a bug on https://bugzilla.xfce.org, or send a mail
to the xfce mailing list and provide make output.

Finally, and usually as root:
3) make install

Note: Depending on your prefix, this might overwrite an existing
version of the plugin.

You can later uninstall the plugin (as root) with
4) make uninstall

The panel should then recognize the new plugin, if it doesn't try to
restart it using xfce4-panel -r. If it still doesn't work after that
try to ask for help somewhere (forums, mailing lists, #xfce on
IRC). Please do not report such problems on the bug tracker.


TRANSLATING THE PLUGIN FOR YOUR LANGUAGE
==========================================================================
If you need help getting started with translating the cpufreq plugin
into your language, please visit https://translations.xfce.org/ and
absorb the information that is there, especially on the *Help* page!
There is other useful documentation available on this topic, try this
wiki page for a start:
https://wiki.xfce.org/translations/translation_guidance_in_xfce

TRANSLATORS, PLEASE MAKE SURE YOU CHECK YOUR FILE FOR ERRORS BEFORE
UPLOADING IT! Otherwise, it will break compilation of the plugin. It
is easy to do this with the following command (where file.po is the po
file of your language):
msgfmt -c --check-accelerators=_ -v -o /dev/null <file.po>

If your po file is out of date and doesn't contain all strings that
appear in the plugin source code, you can use the build system to
update it for you. See the previous section EASY BUILD INSTRUCTIONS
for setting up the build system and perform step 1a to clone the
repository and generate the make files using automake. If this
succeeds, simply change to the po subdirectory and execute the command
"make update-po". This will regenerate all po files in the po
directory and mark changed strings as fuzzy or obsolete, and add new
strings as untranslated. You can then work on it as usual.
